Hello my name is Samuel, I am an udnergraduate student in Singapore studying computing. With this project CAPSTONE, I believe that I have utilised all of the requirements set for this project, using javascript and django simultaneously.


# DISTINCTIVENESS AND COMPLEXITY:
I have created a National Service application where users can calculate their IPPT Score, BMI score as well as track their IPPT bookings. Being a Singaporean, it is my duty to serve the mandatory 2 years of national service before i enter university. As such, i have took this opportunity of free time to build this National service website where I believe will help me in my NS days. I gave myself a challenge, to create a javascript function to calculate your IPPT score using sliders.

This was easier said than done because i had to incorporate different age groups as well. As such, i had to deal with a giant list of data of points and age group for each repetition respectively. What proved difficult was the logic to say that an addition of 1 point was only added when the threshold of the above repetition is met. In the data, there are also some points whereby if you did 39 push ups or 40 push ups, the score is still the same, so i had to compare between rows whether the points is more or less than the previous row. Inculcating the simultaneous calculation of the score when the sliders are shifted also took a while as adding functions to calculate each category of push ups, sit ups and 2.4km timing was difficult as I had to find a way to extract the points from the long list of data factoring in their agegroup, repetitions, whether the previos row had the same no. of points as well as if the repetitions has met the next benchmark to increase a point. I made the slider increase and decrease in intervals of 1 instead of 10 too. This made it specifically difficult to calculate the 2.4km timing as the table in the 2.4km timing was in intervals of 10. So whenever my timing is not divisible by 10, I have to check a few things. Whether the above timing has the same number of points as the timing i am in, if so points dont increase when meeting that threshold, and if the above timing has 1 more point than the timing below, points must increase by 1 when the threshold is met.

Another dificult task i believe i did was to incorporate a 0.5 second delay to my BMI calculator when i click the calculate button. I used a setTimeout function to create an animation when the button is clicked and my the button will "roll" up the card( i used boostrap card for the buttons) as well as the input fields in 0.25s and then roll down in 0.25s to show the final calculated answer. This was the one of the first few times i have tried to incorporate animation into code, and i found it difficult as what i thought was an easy job actually had multiple steps to it. From the starting position when the button is clicked to the top position changing the card-style-height at the top to 0 and then returning the cart-style-height back to auto once the button is brought back down along with adding new html code to the new "page" in the card after the button has "rolled down"

For the django portion of my code, what i did to be complex was to compare the inputed the date with the date today and see of the booking is "done" or not. In my booking model, i have an additional class called done. I am trying to simulate real world bookings whereby if today's timing has passed the recorded timing in the booking model, the python code will then automatically adjust the done = True if the booking has passed today or done = False if the booking date has yet to pass today. I made it such that whenever the booking.html is loaded, i will run through all of the booking records to see if today's timing has passed any of the timing in the booking and if so it will display a different color in the booking.html page with green for done and grey for not done. I have added pagination as well to the bookings list as i am incorporating what i have learnt in the previous projects. Also, another thing i learnt and added to this project is a alert button which i added to the delete booking part where if you want to delete a booking they will first bring to you an alert b4 deleting.


# FILES:
Starting with the default login and register.html these are already given to me when i created the project. In the layout.html is where i code such that only the features of the website can be used when authenticated such as IPPT bookings and IPPT calculator> If not authenticated the navbar will just show Home, login and register. Next is the index.html also known as the home page whereby i used 3 cards for the user to click to bring them to the respective features. These can only be clicked if the user is authenticated. 

The first link will bring them to the Ippt.html whereby there is a brief description of what categories are taken into acount and instructions. There are 3 sliders for the user to input their repetitions and timings as well as a age dropdown users can select to see what age group they are in. WHen any of the sliders or age dropdown are clicked, their score will automatically be shown below using javascript without the page reloading. Above the score will be ur result if you passed, got silver, gold or commando gold and below the score will show how many points until the next milestone. For example, 11 more points until commando gold. These sliders can only be clicked when the age group has been selected.

The second link from the index page will bring you to bookings.html whereby there is a list of booking, showing the test location, date and time and score. There is only 5 bookings shown per page, with a next/previous button below to bring you to the respective pages. You can create a booking by clicking the add record/booking button at the top right of the screen. This will bring you to create.html whereby you are prompted to create a booking, Score is not necessary to fill as if you have not completed the test, you can't put your score. In each booking in bookings.html, there is an edit button to edit the exisiting booking. When clicked on, it will bring you to edit.html whererby the existing data is already prefilled for you and you just edit accordingly. In the edit.html ther is also a delete button that deletes the button with an alert popping up when clicked to verfiy that you want to delete the booking. Back to the bookings.html, any date shown that is already passed the time today will have its background changed to green while the ones that are incomplete have their backgorund grey. All bookings are also arranged based on latest date to earliest date. 

The third link wil be bring me to the BMI.html page. In the BMI calculator, there is a description of what the BMI calculator shows and the ranges for a healthy underweight and overweight person's BMI to be. Below is two input fields. Users must enter values that are within the ranges of each input field. For example, the height input must be between 100 and 300 and the weight input must be between 25 and 300 as these are realistic numbers for ones height and weight. If values are not within the range, an error message will display below the input field. if both input fields are typed with the valid values, the calculate button will be enabled. When it is clicked, an animation begins, whereby the calculate button "rolls" up and then "rolls" down showing the results of ur BMI calculation as well as what category you fall under.

In conclusion, i have learnt alot from building this CAPSTONE project and i thank CS50 for giving me such a learning opportunity that is accessible to anyone in the world!!
